1. App Service 

    - What is App Service for?

        Is Platform as a Service (PaaS) that enables you to build and host web apps, mobile back ends, and RESTful APIs in the programming language of your choice without managing infrastructure.

        The app service offers a range of plans to meet the needs of your app. Azure App Service runs web and API apps at scale and works seamlessly with other first or third party applications/integrations to meet the app solution requirements you envision.

        To configure an App Service, start with an App Service subscription:

        1. It is essentially the scope and scale of what your application will have available.
            It determines how much storage space it has, how much CPU and memory, etc.
        2. It's just like the billing model and feature set for the app services.
        3. You can have multiple applications installed in the App Service Plan.
        4. The App Service will run your application.
        5. The web apps app service has deployment slots. This allows you to create a
        instance of your application, meaning you can have multiple versions of your website and switch between them when you deploy them.

    -   How does App Service fit / replace App Service in a classic setting?

        -  In the classic setting of deployment model, resource states, policies, and tags are all managed individually. If you need to delete resources, you do so individually. This quickly becomes a management challenge.

        - Azure app service is different from hosting on your own on-premise server(classic setting). Because with on-premise web hosting, you or your organisation is reponsible for managing pretty much everything (from storage to networking equipment). 

        - While in Azure app service everything else is managed by Azure. So you don't have to worry about any of the things like, managing the network or underlying infrastructure.

        - Meet rigorous, enterprise-grade performance, security, and compliance requirements by using the fully managed platform for your operational and monitoring tasks.

        - Cloud Services(classic) is now deprecated for new customers and will retire on August 31st, 2024 for all customers. Cloud Services (extended support) with Azure Resource Manager is the recommended replacement.


    -   How can I combine App Service with other services?

        - Authenticate users with Azure Active Directory or any of the external authentication providers like Google, Facebook, Twitter, or Microsoft.

        - Also host a custom Windows or Linux container in App Service. So, if you want to, you can dockerize your app and host it in App Service. You can also run multi-container apps with Docker Compose.

        - With App Service you can still access data on your on-premise servers using Hybrid Connections and Azure Virtual Networks.


    -    What is the difference between App Service and other similar services?

            - Elastic beanstalk; Quickly deploy and manage applications in the AWS cloud. According to reviewers(g2.com), they found that AWS Elastic Beanstalk was easier to use and do business with overall. However, reviewers preferred the ease of set up with Azure App Service, along with administration.

            - Google App engine; Build web applications on the same scalable systems that power Google applications. When assessing the two solutions, reviewers found Azure App Service easier to use and set up. However, Google App Engine is easier to administer. Reviewers felt that Azure App Service meets the needs of their business better than Google App Engine.

            - Heroku;  Heroku is a service that enables companies to spend their time developing and deploying apps. When assessing the two solutions, reviewers found Salesforce Heroku easier to use, administer, and do business with overall. However, reviewers preferred the ease of set up with Azure App Service.

            Netlify: Just like heroku, but is a web developer platform that multiplies productivity. By unifying the elements of the modern decoupled web, from local development to advanced edge logic, Netlify enables a 10x faster path to much more performant, secure, and scalable websites and apps.

           

# challenges overcame
Finding a balance between getting deep into the documentation and Just reading the first page for the answer to the question.
So if i have time then i will get deep into the documentation and otherwise and i will go back in the evening or when i have some extra time to study further about that particular part of the theory.

# Sources
     

 https://www.pragimtech.com/blog/azure/what-is-azure-app-service/

 https://www.g2.com/compare/aws-elastic-beanstalk-vs-azure-app-service

 https://www.g2.com/compare/azure-app-service-vs-google-app-engine-vs-salesforce-heroku

 https://www.heroku.com/what#:~:text=Heroku%20is%20part%20of%20the,enables%20full%2Dcycle%20CRM%20engagement

 https://www.g2.com/compare/azure-app-service-vs-salesforce-heroku            