# 13.3 Azure DNS 

- What is Azure DNS for?
     
Is a cloud service that allows you to host and manage domain name system (DNS) domains, also known as DNS zones. It works like a phonebook, but here is where computers  resolve domain names to IP addresses.

The DNS is broken up into many different zones. These zones differentiate between distinctly managed areas in the DNS namespace.

### Key Terminologies:

- DNS zone;

 A DNS zone is a portion of the DNS namespace that is managed by a specific organization or administrator. A DNS zone is an administrative space which allows for more granular control of DNS components, such as authoritative nameservers. The domain name space is a hierarchical tree, with the DNS root domain at the top. A DNS zone starts at a domain within the tree and can also extend down into subdomains so that multiple subdomains can be managed by one entity.

-  How does Azure DNS / replace Azure DNS in a classic setting?

Traditionally when a DNS service is hosted on a server running Windows Server or Linux and a DNS zone gets delegated to that server. But DNS zones in Azure DNS are hosted across Azure's global network of DNS name servers. These servers use Anycast networking so that queries for DNS zone data will be answered by the DNS server closest to the querying client. 

-  How can I combine Azure DNS with other services?

    - Azure Firewall DNS proxy can be used as DNS forwarder for On-premises workloads and Virtual network workloads using a DNS forwarder.

    - Use Azure DNS for private domains.  


-   What is the difference between Azure DNS(Small-Business) and other similar services?

        -   Route 53; for mid-market

        - Cloudflare DNS; Small-Business

        - Google Cloud DNS; Small-Business

        - GoDaddy; Small-Business

# Sources

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/intro-to-azure-dns/2-what-is-azure-dns


https://www.g2.com/compare/amazon-route-53-vs-azure-dns-vs-cloudflare-dns-vs-google-cloud-dns