
13.5 Azure Database (+ managed instance):

    Azure SQL Database is a fully managed platform as a service (PaaS) database engine that handles most of the database management functions such as upgrading, patching, backups, and monitoring without user involvement. Azure SQL Database is always running on the latest stable version of the SQL Server database engine and patched OS with 99.99% availability.

    It enables you to process both relational data and non-relational structures, such as graphs, JSON, spatial, and XML.

    A SQL Managed Instance is created in its own VNet with no public endpoint. To access client applications, you can create a virtual machine in the same VNet (with a different subnet) with a point-to-site VPN connection to the VNet from the client computer using one of these quickstarts:

- Enable public endpoint on your SQL Managed Instance to access your data directly from your environment.
- Create Azure Virtual Machine in the SQL Managed Instance VNet for client application connectivity, including SQL Server Management Studio.
- Set up a point-to-site VPN connection to your SQL Managed Instance from your client computer running SQL Server Management Studio and other client connection applications. This is one of two other options for connectivity to your SQL Managed Instance and its VNet. The other option is to use an express route over a site-to-site connection from your local network.

    -   Where can I find this service in the console?

        -   Via Azure SQL, kan je kiezen om een Managed Instance aan te maken.  

    -   How do I enable this service?


    -   How can I link this service to other resources?


    # Sources

    https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/sql-database-paas-overview?view=azuresql